have you ever eaten so much at an all
you can eat that you practically put the
company out of business you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you today we are going to talk about Red
Lobster H not just Red Lobster of course
but that's going to start us off and
we're going to talk about things that I
think are really front and center right
now for a lot of people let's begin
though with the Red Lobster thing they
make a change that they all you can eat
deal after customers ate so much that
the restaurant suffered huge losses at
least five new menu items have been
introduced at Red Lobster for an annual
event they're going for this you want
endless shrimp well these people ate
boatloads of endless shrimp and as a
result of it they definitely lost money
look the point here is that people and
businesses in some cases are losing
money they're losing money to inflation
why is this all happening everything
everything we are seeing is because the
currency is being devalued and when we
start to understand that things make a
lot of sense understanding what the
central bank's purpose is the central
bank has has one purpose and that is to
devalue your currency why would they do
that though they want to devalue the
currency because that is the number one
way to create a divide in between the
rich and the poor and slowly but surely
and sometimes in quick Paces uh we do
find that this happens to
occur um you know at at people don't
make that connection they don't realize
it in depth Canadians are fed up with SH
inflation what is being done about it
well this is not just Canadians my
American friends Australian friends
everybody else in Europe and everywhere
we're seeing the same thing all right
they cut it slightly but the truth of
the matter is that the Studies have
shown that a customer would rather have
a product that is slightly smaller than
see the price go up it's just it it's a
mental thing right we just well you know
I guess I'd rather have this but in fact
what I have seen in the case of shrink
flation that the price increase would
actually you'd end up spending less
but they can get away with more this way
that's why they love doing it several
countries are introducing regulations
see they're going to regulate that but
that's not going to fix the problem it
is never going to fix the
problem really
truly they have to get to the central
banks and we know that your friends at
the central banks are not going to stop
they are the ones responsible is there
what they call greed flation as they
have shrink flation as they have skimp
flation these are not just silly terms
skimp flation would be for instance a
product that was let's say it was made
of 10% water and then you know all this
different detergents or whatever they
put in there now they put 12% water and
then 15% water and they're just thinner
and thinner and thinner and thinner or
over time and you're saying my goodness
this stuff is barely you know the same
and you can find that with soaps and
things it used to be so much thicker and
now you get the product that's way
thinner that's skip inflation and so you
don't see that in the price but the
price is going up
technically right keep that in mind they
can't regulate all this stuff they're
not they're not going to we got to
realize that the currency is being
devalued and they are the ones front and
center they should be on your radar not
just the craft and the hindes and all
those
companies craft dinner Canadian Shoppers
lament latest Target of shrink flation
boxes of KD are now smaller so some
would say oh well don't buy the
processed food look it's it's everywhere
it's there's nothing that hasn't been
like broadly speaking that hasn't been
shrink flated skimp flated or in some
way becoming more costly this affects
goods and services this is why we must
understand the central bank's activ
ities they are the
ones that are causing the
pain and we got to realize this study
the history you'll find wait a minute
they're actually designed from their
initial setup to create this problem for
me uhoh that's not good and it starts
to make a lot of sense when you
understand the history but for the most
part all we need to know is that they're
very they've been very clear about it
they want to create
inflation it's been 30 years since food
ate up this much of your income ongoing
high cost lead food manufacturers and
restaurants to keep prices elevated in
many cases they have gone overboard in
my opinion you look at a glass of wine
glass of wine you know one day it's $6
then it was $8 then it's $24 you're like
heyy whoa whoa something's going on I
don't drink anyway but I'm just saying
um this is what I see
okay in fact I went to go get an
espresso at a place I normally don't get
it at Italian espresso nice you know
pretty good actually she didn't make it
that good this time um I've been there
before not my normal place this another
place
$410
$410 for an espresso And We complain
about the Starbucks prices
no it's crazy some of these places are
just it's a ripoff okay fed's preferred
inflation gauge expected to accelerate
and so this is an issue when we look at
the core
pce inflation rate going
higher because this is what the FED
looks at so they're going to decide
should we increase interest rates should
we bring them down should we leave them
as is the core pce is going to be one of
the main contributing factors to their
decision making if we believe what they
say so let's watch out okay when when we
increase interest rates obviously that's
slows down inflation that is
positive uh the only problem is they're
simultaneously doing two different
things they're kind of telling everybody
that don't worry interest rates are
coming so they're they're signaling that
at the same time they're kind of leaving
interest rates high so you the borrower
borrowing through mortgage borrowing for
your car your credit cards whatever it
is is that's becoming more expensive and
so there's kind of these you know two
things are happening at the same time
I'm interested to see how it all plays
out the PPI producer price uh index is
actually uh considerably moved
considerably higher from its bottom
we're going to see if it continues
though and so what happens when we see
prices rise well we have the great
compression this is talking about
essentially like small homes mobile
homes and what people are doing you know
being fit into smaller areas because
they can't afford anything else look at
this example California couple earning
$200,000 a year claim they cannot afford
to have children as the birth rate
plummets across the country and the cost
to raise a kid to7 reaches
$310,000 it's arguable like how they
calculating these things I've seen these
numbers before uh the point is that so
much right now is just too expensive you
know whether you agree with what they're
saying here or not we know that that is
the case Central bank's responsible and
things are likely to get more expensive
so my message to you is that if you
believe things will be more expensive
next year what will you do if you
believe asset prices could be even
higher next year what will you do do not
expect things to necessarily turn around
and we've got to watch out for that okay
because we always wait wait wait wait
wait and we're going to be in trouble at
some point we've got to be able to just
like I was saying in 2020 I was saying
hey do you think that food prices are
going to go up do you think rice is
going to go up do you think pasta's
going to go up so why you sitting there
on your hands you're waiting for them to
go on sale or something you got you got
to buy now because what you're doing
when you buy now is you're getting you
know next year's sale price you see keep
that in mind look at the consumers
though the way that consumers are
purchasing are changing and markets are
changing so when we look at it China is
going to be a
massive China and India as well the rate
at which people consume is going to get
much much larger so the trend is going
towards brics Nations going towards uh
Asia specifically these two countries
obviously with having you know 1.4
billion people each they are consuming
at such a high rate they will need more
Commodities they will need more services
they're going to need more of everything
so just you know this this by the way is
uh in 2050 okay so that that takes a
long time and then that's if it goes on
the same trajectory nobody necessarily
knows but just keep that in mind how the
world is changing a lot is going on
right now and we can see the stock
market Market at the same time the world
index hitting a record high here at this
time there is chaos there's a lot of
euphoria and we've got to pay attention
to each of these things there there's
like some people are winning some
countries are winning some you know
institutions are doing well like look at
some of the financial institutions
they're going bankrupt at the same time
JP Morgan is hitting a record high so
we've got to be able to pick what we can
and Choose Wisely Choose Wisely just
don't use leverage be mindful of where
your money is going because right now is
the time in which we don't want to be
sitting idle we want to take action each
and every day towards our goals and the
things that we want in our lives so if
you haven't already definitely check out
the money gps.com
slive 2 hours on Friday 2 hours on
Sunday where I get to basically break
through um the conventional Norms of how
people do things and everybody who joins
realizes that this is on a whole another
level I hope to see you there the money
gps.com link is in the description hit
that thumbs up button on the way out I
do appreciate that very much until next
time on the money
GPS I'll see you at then take
care